When a cancerous tumor grows new blood vessels form.
The blood supplies the tumor with oxygen and nutrients.
Cancer cells can also travel through these
blood vessels to other tissue,
where they can settle and grow.
This process called metastasis,
can also occur in bone.
Normal bone is continuously active.
Old bone is broken down by
cells called Osteoclasts.
while new bone is formed by
cells called Osteoblasts.
As this happens,
the bone releases substances called growth factors
to support the process.
When the cancer cells spread to the bone,
they take advantage of this cycle.
The growth factors released help the cancer cells grow,
and the cancer cells in turn
release growth factors that stimulate Osteoclasts
and/or Ostreoblasts.
Small holes can form
making bones weak and fragile,
and weak unstable growths can also build up.
These changes can lead to serious complications,
like bone pain,
fractures,
and pressure on the spinal cord
that can damage nerves.
Which can have significant impact on patient's lives.
The spine, ribs, skull and upper arms and legs
are the most common areas
for cancer to spread to the bone.
Treatment for bone metastasis can involve chemotherapy,
hormone therapy,
radiation or surgery.
Medications are also available that may help.
See your doctor for treatment options.